---
title: My website uses Zola
pubDate: 2022-08-04
description: My website now uses Zola because I'm too lazy to write plain html
---

I started using one of the fastest static site generator, Zola. Before I use
Zola, I managed my blog with plain HTML and CSS files. If you had experience
with some web development, you would understand how painful it is to create the
blog with plain HTML. I would have to write same headers and footers for ever
single file and I felt this is very stupid to do. But before I started looking
for tools I use, I need to research since I lack some knowledge.

## Static site and Dynamic site

After doing some research I found out that there are two types of server,
dynamic site and static site. Dynamic site would change the content of it
according to the user. For example if you are logged in to YouTube, you would
have different looks compared to someone because the contents change according
to that specific user. On the other hand, static site will not change its
content, base on the user. Generally dynamic website seems to be more unstable
when compared to static sites.

## Why Zola?

For security and performance aspects, I decided going with static site and
started looking for static site generator. I found Jekyll, Hugo, Zola and
tinkered around with them for few hours. After playing around with them, Zola
seems to be comfortable for me to use. It's written in Rust, has only one
dependencies, and most importantly easy to use. Now with using static site
generators I can write my blog in markdown file and this would make me easier to
manage texts for my website.

The documentation is wonderful and I read most it. If you are too lazy to read
the docs, there is a [video by bugswriter](https://youtu.be/V_qy1BnEMCc) which
he explains how to use it. This helped me a lot to get started with it.
